GEORGE, BUBBA,
GET A MOVE ON.
THE DAY'S A-WASTIN'.
WHAT'S THE
HURRY, SAM?
IT'S TIME BUBBA
GOT TO SCHOOL.
OH, WHY DO I'VE GOT
TO GO TO THAT OLD
SCHOOL, ANYWAY?
WELL, I'LL
TELL YOU WHY.
ONE OF THESE DAYS
YOU'RE GOING TO PICK
UP A MAN'S POKE.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE
A DOLLAR IN IT
AND A QUARTER
AND A DIME
AND A NICKEL,
AND HOW MUCH
YOU GOT?
I DON'T KNOW.
HOW MUCH?
UH, DOLLAR AND A HALF.
WASH YOUR FACE.
WHAT DO I DO
FOR LUNCH?
FIND SOME.
SOME THERE
WILL HAVE MORE
THAN THEY NEED.
NOW GIT!
IT'S TIME
WE GOT TO TOWN.
GOOD MORNING,
GENTLEMEN.
GOOD MORNING.
I SEE YOU LIKE
THE PEARS.
WELL, MIGHTY TASTY,
MIGHTY TASTY.
MM-HMM.
THEY'RE ALSO
NOT INEXPENSIVE.
20 CENTS A PECK.
FINE.
WE'LL TAKE
A BUSHEL.
A BU--OH!
OH, MY.
WELL, UH, YES.
MIGHT I HELP YOU
WITH ANYTHING ELSE?
AS A MATTER
OF FACT, THERE IS.
WE'RE GOING TO BE
MOVING HERE TO WALNUT
GROVE PERMANENT,
AND WE HAVE BEEN
OUT ON THE ROAD,
AND WE'VE USED UP
ALL OUR PROVISIONS.
OH, WELL,
YOU'VE COME TO
THE RIGHT PLACE.
OLESON'S MERCANTILE
DOES HAVE
THE LARGEST SELECTION
OF SUPPLIES
IN ALL OF
HERO TOWNSHIP.
I'M MRS. OLESON.
WELL, PLEASED
TO MEET YOU, MA'AM.
GEORGE GALENDER,
AND THAT'S
MY BROTHER SAM.
HOW DO?
HOW DO YOU DO?
YOU WOULDN'T
HAPPEN TO HAVE THESE
IN A 9 1/2, WOULD YOU?
ACTUALLY, NO,
I DON'T HAVE
YOUR SIZE.
I DO HAVE YOUR
SIZE, HOWEVER,
IN A MUCH FINER SHOE.
OF COURSE,
IT IS RATHER EXPENSIVE.
WELL, PRICE
IS NO MATTER.
OH. WELL, THAT'S
WHAT I ALWAYS SAY.
IT DOESN'T
MATTER AS LONG AS
THE QUALITY IS GOOD.
MM-HMM.
WHOA.
AH. GOOD
MORNING.
GOOD MORNING.
OH, NELS.
THIS IS MR. SAM
AND MR. GEORGE
GALENDER.
THEY'VE
JUST SETTLED
IN WALNUT GROVE.
WELL, I'M VERY
HAPPY TO HEAR THAT.
I HOPE YOU FIND THE TOWN
TO YOUR LIKING.
WELL, IF EVERYONE IS
AS KIND AS YOUR WIFE,
I'M SURE WE WILL.
OH! THANK YOU.
[LAUGHS]
NOW, LET'S SEE.
YOUR BILL COMES
TO EXACTLY 16.75.
WELL, THAT'S JUST FINE.
YOU CAN CHARGE IT
TO OUR ACCOUNT.
UH...
UM...LET ME
SEE THAT.
UH, I'M--
I'M SORRY.
I'M AFRAID
MY, UH, MY WIFE
DIDN'T EXPLAIN
THAT IT IS
NOT OUR POLICY
TO EXTEND CREDIT UN--
[GLASS SHATTERS]
'FRAID YOU'LL
HAVE TO PUT THAT
ON OUR BILL.
I'M SORRY.
GEORGE, DON'T
FOOL AROUND WITH
THE GLASSWARE.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER
IS, I--I HAVE A BANK DRAFT
THAT'S DUE HERE
ON FRIDAY,
AT WHICH TIME I'D
BE ONLY TOO GLAD TO
SETTLE UP WITH YOU.
OH.
FRIDAY.
YES.
WELL, I, UH--I
GUESS THAT WOULD
BE ALL RIGHT.
YOU SPELL
YOUR NAME G-A-L...
G-A-L-E-N-D-E-R?
Bubba:
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND BUBBA IS
YOUR GIVEN NAME?
[LAUGHTER]
THAT'S RIGHT.
Miss Beadle: CLASS!
BUBBA, WE'RE VERY HAPPY
TO WELCOME YOU TO SCHOOL.
AND DON'T FEEL
ILL AT EASE
THAT THERE AREN'T
MORE BOYS IN SCHOOL.
THEY'LL BE BACK SOON
AS THE PLANTING'S OVER.
ALL FARMERS, HUH?
UH-HUH. YOU MAY
TAKE YOUR SEAT.
BUBBA.
THAT'S THE SILLIEST
NAME I'VE EVER HEARD.
WILLIE, IS THERE
SOMETHING WRONG?
NO, MA'AM.
Miss Beadle: WELL, THEN,
PLEASE TAKE YOUR SEAT.
YES, MA'AM.
Miss Beadle: ALL RIGHT,
CLASS, YOU CAN OPEN
YOUR BOOKS AND BEGIN.
HI. WE'RE LOOKING
TO BUY SOME LUMBER.
YOU MR. HANSON?
NO, NO. MY NAME'S
CHARLES INGALLS.
MR. HANSON!
GOT SOME
CUSTOMERS HERE.
OH, WELL, THAT IS WHAT
WE ARE IN BUSINESS FOR.
WHAT CAN I DO FOR YOU?
SAM GALENDER'S
MY NAME.
THIS HERE IS
MY BROTHER GEORGE.
WE'D LIKE TO BUY
SOME LUMBER.
AH. WHAT DO YOU
WANT TO USE IT FOR?
WELL, WE'VE TAKEN
THAT OLD PLACE
ACROSS THE WAY.
FIGURED WE'D
PUT A NEW ROOF ON
AND REPLACE
SOME OF THE STUDDING.
OH, EDWARDS'
OLD PLACE.
WELL, YOU'LL NEED
PLENTY OF LUMBER
FOR THAT, ALL RIGHT.
WELL, I'LL
TELL YOU.
A WAGON LOAD ABOUT--
ABOUT LIKE THAT WOULD DO IT.
I'M SORRY. THAT IS
ALREADY SPOKE FOR--
MR. HENDERSON.
WELL, WE WAS
KIND OF HOPING
TO GET THE ROOF ON
BEFORE IT RAINED.
YOU KNOW, HENDERSON'S
NOT GOING TO START WORK
ON HIS PLACE
FOR A COUPLE OF WEEKS.
WE'LL HAVE ANOTHER
LOAD CUT BY THEN.
WELL, WE'D BE
WILLING TO PAY
PREMIUM FOR IT--
SAY $2.00--$2.00 MORE
FOR THE WAGON LOAD.
OH, NO. THAT IS
NOT NECESSARY.
$18 FOR HENDERSON,
AND IT'S $18 TO YOU.
WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'LL TELL YOU, THOUGH,
WE DON'T--WE
DON'T HAVE MUCH CASH
BECAUSE WE WERE
BUYING A BUNCH OF
SUPPLIES AND STUFF,
BUT I DO HAVE
A BANK NOTE
THAT'S GOING TO BE
DUE BY FRIDAY.
I JUST HOPE IT DOESN'T
RAIN BY FRIDAY.
OH, WELL, FRIDAY
WILL BE ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL HAVE IT
DELIVERED BY
THIS AFTERNOON.
WELL, THAT'S VERY
NICE OF YOU.
IT'S NICE DOING
BUSINESS WITH YOU.
I HOPE YOU
LIKE OUR TOWN.
I'M SURE WE WILL.
MUCH OBLIGED.
[CHILDREN PLAYING]
HIT HER, SARAH.
HIT HER.
LET ME SHOW YOU
HOW TO DO THAT.
THAT'S NO FAIR.
YOU HAVE TO BOUNCE
THE BALL FIRST.
WHAT'S IT TO YOU,
PEE-WEE?
THAT'S THE RULE.
YOU COULD HURT
SOMEONE.
YOU PLAY
A SISSY GAME.
IF IT'S SUCH
A SISSY GAME,
WHY DO YOU WANT
TO PLAY FOR?
GIVE ME THE BALL.
LAURA!
LAURA, STOP IT!
STOP IT!
IT'S NOT
MY FAULT!
HE WOULDN'T GET AWAY WITH THAT
IF THE BIGGER BOYS WERE HERE!
HE THROWS
TOO HARD, MARY.
HE HURT CINDY.
BUBBA, YOU'RE
OLDER AND BIGGER.
THAT'S WHY WE
HAVE RULES,
SO THE LITTLE KIDS
DON'T GET HURT.
WELL, THAT'S MY RULE.
[BELL CLANGS]
FROM NOW ON,
WE'RE GOING TO
PLAY BY MY RULES.
IF YOU KNOW
WHAT'S GOOD
FOR YOU,
YOU BETTER NOT
GO SNITCHING
TO MISS BEADLE.
DOES IT
HURT BAD?
NO, NOT
TOO BAD.
SURE LOOKS
LIKE IT HURTS.
I GOT TO THINK
OF SOMETHING TO
TELL MA AND PA.
WHY DON'T YOU
JUST TELL THEM
WHAT HAPPENED?
PA'S SURE
TO GIVE THAT
BUBBA WHAT FOR.
I DON'T
WANT HIM TO.
THEN THE KIDS'LL
THINK I'M A
TATTLETALE.
WELL, PA'S
BOUND TO SEE
YOUR EYE.
I'LL TELL
HIM IT WAS
AN ACCIDENT.
OH, YEAH.
BY MISTAKE, YOUR
EYE BANGED INTO
BUBBA'S FIST.
YOU'RE A
BIG HELP.
WELL, I THINK
YOU SHOULD TELL
THEM THE TRUTH.
NO! I TOLD
YOU NO.
IT ALL STARTED
IN THAT
DODGE BALL GAME.
IT WOULDN'T BE
A LIE IF I TOLD
THEM I GOT HIT
WITH THE DODGE
BALL, WOULD IT?
COURSE IT WOULD.
WELL, I'LL TELL
THEM ANYWAY.
WHOA!
HOW ARE
MY LOVELY LADIES
THIS EVENING?
I'VE BEEN
HELPING, PA.
WHAT YOU BEEN
DOING, SWEETHEART?
- MILKING.
- YOU'VE BEEN MILKING, HUH?
WERE YOU DOING
ALL MY CHORES
FOR ME?
WELL, THE COW
WAS MAKING A FUSS,
AND I DIDN'T WANT
THE ROAST TO WAIT
UNTIL YOU
FINISHED MILKING.
I'M SORRY I'M LATE.
HAD A DELIVERY TO MAKE.
SOME FELLAS MOVED INTO
THE OLD EDWARDS' PLACE.
- THEY'RE GOING TO FIX IT UP.
- IT COULD USE IT.
IT SURE COULD,
AND I COULD USE
SOME ROAST.
TAKE ME
JUST A MINUTE TO
UNHITCH THE TEAM.
DOES IT LOOK
ANY BETTER?
LAURA?
DOES IT LOOK
ANY BETTER?
WELL, SOME.
IT'S MOSTLY
CHANGING IN COLOR.
WELL, YOU'RE NOT
TO SAY ANYTHING
TO PA, YOU HEAR?
ALL RIGHT. BUT
I DON'T SEE WHY NOT.
Caroline: MARY, LAURA.
TIME FOR SUPPER.
I UNDERSTAND YOU GOT
A NEW SCHOOLMATE.
GALENDERS TOLD ME
THEIR LITTLE BROTHER
STARTED TODAY.
HE'S NOT
SO LITTLE.
HE COULDN'T BE
IF HE TOOK AFTER
HIS BROTHERS.
HE'S ABOUT YOUR AGE,
ISN'T HE, MARY?
YES, SIR.
MARY, WHAT
DID YOU DO
TO YOUR EYE?
Caroline: MARY HAD
AN ACCIDENT TODAY.
HOW'D YOU
DO THAT?
I GOT HIT...
IN THE DODGE BALL GAME.
IT SEEMS LIKE A
FUNNY WAY TO GET
A BLACK EYE.
I MANAGED IT.
BUT IT'S A LOT BETTER.
DOESN'T HURT
HARDLY AT ALL.
IT'S A GOOD THING
SHE DIDN'T HAVE
HER GLASSES ON.
THAT COULD
HAVE BEEN
SERIOUS.
YES, SIR, I KNOW.
BUT IT'S ALL RIGHT.
MA FIXED ME A POULTICE.
Charles: MAKE SURE
YOU USE IT TONIGHT.
THAT SWELLING OUGHT TO BE
DOWN BY TOMORROW MORNING.
DID YOU EVER HAVE
A BLACK EYE, PA?
I SURE DID. TAUGHT
ME A LESSON, TOO.
WHAT WAS THAT?
ONLY THING WORSE
THAN ONE BLACK EYE
IS TWO BLACK EYES.
KEEP THAT IN
MIND, MARY.
ALL RIGHT, PA.
DEAR LORD, WE THANK
YOU FOR THE FOOD
YOU PLACE BEFORE US...
HEY, MARY. I JUST
FIGURED OUT A WAY
WE COULD GET BACK
AT THAT OLD BUBBA.
I DON'T WANT
TO TALK ABOUT
IT, LAURA.
TOMORROW MORNING
WE COULD STOP
BY THE CREEK
ON OUR WAY TO SCHOOL
AND GET A BIG FROG
AND PUT IT IN
HIS LUNCH BUCKET.
HE DOESN'T HAVE
A LUNCH BUCKET.
BESIDES,
IT'S FINISHED.
WE COULD PUT IT
DOWN HIS SHIRT.
MAYBE HE'LL GET
WARTS.
YOU HEARD
WHAT PA SAID.
I DON'T WANT ANY
MORE TROUBLE.
ALL RIGHT.
I STILL THINK
WE OUGHT TO GET
THAT FROG.
[ALL SHOUTING]
YOUR EYE LOOKS
MUCH BETTER, MARY.
THANKS. THAT'S
NOT WHAT EVERYONE
ELSE SAYS.
NO, REALLY,
IT DOES. HONEST.
DOES IT
STILL HURT?
NOT MUCH.
- HEY!
- HEY WHAT?
COME ON, LAURA.
LET'S GO.
THAT'S A VERY
GOOD TRICK.
I DON'T THINK
IT'S TOO MUCH.
MAYBE YOU'D LIKE TO TRY IT.
THE SEESAW'S
FOR TWO PEOPLE.
WELL,
I GOT IT NOW.
I'LL GIVE YOU
A SOUR BALL IF YOU
LET ME USE IT.
YOU GOT CANDY?
YEAH, MY PA'S GOT LOTS
OF IT IN THE STORE.
BET YOU COULD GET
ALL YOU WANT, HUH?
EVERY DAY?
I'LL BRING YOU SOME
IF WE'RE FRIENDS.
LET ME SEE THE SOUR BALL.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU CAN USE
THE SEESAW.
I SAID HER.
ISN'T THAT JUST
LIKE THAT NELLIE,
MAKING UP
TO THAT OLD BULLY,
GIVING HIM CANDY?
THERE'S ONE GOOD
THING ABOUT IT.
WELL, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THAT IS.
MAYBE THEY'LL
BOTH WIND UP WITH
ROTTEN TEETH.
AH, GOOD MORNING,
MR. HENDERSON.
HOW ARE YOU?
WHY, JUST FINE,
MR. HANSON,
JUST FINE.
GOOD. I WANT YOU
TO KNOW THAT
CHARLES SAID
THAT YOUR ORDER
WILL BE CUT AND
DELIVERED BY TUESDAY.
OH, WELL, I WAS
JUST ON MY WAY
DOWN TO THE MILL.
I WANTED TO TELL YOU
THAT I'M NOT GOING TO BE
NEEDING THAT LUMBER.
OH. YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
BUILD THE BARN, HUH?
WELL, NO, THAT'S
NOT IT EXACTLY.
I JUST GOT
A BETTER PRICE.
BUT...I GAVE YOU
THE BEST PRICE.
I KNOW, MR. HANSON.
I KNOW YOU DID,
BUT THESE FELLAS
BEAT IT--
BEAT IT BY $3.00.
CAME BY MY PLACE
EARLY THIS MORNING.
THEY HAD--THEY HAD
EXACTLY THE MATERIALS
THAT I WAS LOOKING FOR.
HOPE YOU
UNDERSTAND.
COULDN'T TURN IT DOWN.
NO HARD FEELINGS.
OH, YEAH, YEAH,
I UNDERSTAND.
THANK YOU,
MR. HANSON.
BE SEEING YOU.
MR. HENDERSON?
UH, THE FELLAS
THAT SOLD YOU
THAT LUMBER--
DID YOU GET
THEIR NAMES?
UM...YEAH.
HIS NAME WAS, UH,
GA--GAL--GALENDER.
THAT'S WHAT IT
WAS. GALENDER.
SAID THAT THEY WERE
SETTLING IN HEREABOUTS.
IF THERE IS ONE THING
I CANNOT STAND,
IT IS A LIAR
AND A THIEF.
WELL, I CAN'T DENY
TELLING A STORY
NOW AND AGAIN,
BUT I AIN'T NEVER
TAKING NOTHING.
NO, NO, IT DOESN'T
HAVE ANYTHING TO
DO WITH YOU.
IT IS THE GALENDERS.
THEY ARE BOTH
LIARS AND THIEVES!
I DON'T RIGHTLY
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
YOU KNOW THAT
LOAD OF LUMBER THAT
CHARLES DELIVERED?
- UH-HUH.
- YOU KNOW WHAT THEY DID?
THEY SOLD IT
TO HENDERSON
$3.00 CHEAPER!
AND I LOSE BOTH
THE LUMBER AND
THE ORDER.
NO MATTER ABOUT THAT,
THEY STILL HAVE GOT
TO PAY YOU FOR IT.
OH, YEAH, SURE,
SURE, THEY PAY.
THEY LIE!
THAT'S WHAT THEY DO.
AND THEY ARE NOT
EVEN ASHAMED!
WELL, SOMEBODY OUGHT TO
HAVE A TALK WITH THEM.
NO, NELS OLESON
ALREADY HAS TRIED.
YOU KNOW WHAT THEY DID?
THEY TOOK ALMOST
$20 WORTH OF HIS
MERCHANDISE.
WAIT, YOU DON'T JUST
TAKE SOMETHING AND
NOT PAY FOR IT.
THEY SAY THEY'D PAY.
YOU SEE, THAT WAY
IT IS CREDIT.
YOU CAN'T PUT A MAN
IN JAIL FOR HIS BILLS.
WELL, SOMEBODY OUGHT TO TAKE
A SWITCH TO THEM [INDISTINCT].
BACK IN DUVAL COUNTY,
WE HAD SOME FELLAS
WOULD NOTHING DO BUT TAKE
THEM DOWN TO THE CREEK--
NO! NO.
THAT ONLY
MAKES TROUBLE.
I'VE SEEN THIS
KIND BEFORE.
THEY GROW TIRED AND
THEN THEY MOVE ON.
THAT IS BEST, THEN
NO ONE GETS HURT.
BUT...LEAST YOU COULD
HAVE DONE IS LET ME
FINISH MY STORY.
IT WAS A PIP.
YOU SHOULD HAVE HEARD
MRS. OLESON AT THE
WOMEN'S LEAGUE TODAY.
WHY, I THOUGHT SHE WAS
GOING TO HAVE NELS GO OUT
AND TAKE A SHOTGUN
TO THOSE GALENDERS.
IT'D BE THE FIRST TIME
THAT WOMAN AND I EVER
SAW EYE TO EYE.
SHE WASN'T
THE ONLY ONE.
SEEMS THEY GOT
A SIDE OF BEEF
FROM THE MORTONS
AND HAY AND FEED
FROM THE STEVENS,
ALL ON CREDIT.
SOUNDS LIKE THE
SAME THING THEY
PULLED ON HANSON.
IF YOU ASK ME,
THE SOONER
THE GALENDERS
GET THEIR HEADS
KNOCKED TOGETHER,
THE BETTER OFF
THIS TOWN'S
GOING TO BE.
CHARLES, THAT
SOUNDS AWFULLY HARSH.
DON'T BE SO SURE
THEY'RE GENTLEFOLK.
WELL, WHEN THEY GET TO
KNOW PEOPLE BETTER...
A FELLA COULD GO
BROKE GETTING TO
KNOW THE GALENDERS.
GOOD NIGHT.
BE SEATED, PLEASE.
THIS MORNING'S
SERMON...
DEALS WITH A PROBLEM
THAT I UNDERSTAND
CONCERNS MANY OF YOU
IN THE CONGREGATION.
NOW, I KNOW THAT
SOME OF YOU HAVE...
SUFFERED UNDUE COSTS...
AND SOME ABUSE.
BUT I WOULD REMIND YOU
THAT THE LORD TESTS
US IN MANY WAYS.
SOME OF THE HYMNS
THAT WE SING IN CHURCH...
SPEAK OF COURAGE.
BUT IT'S
CHRISTIAN COURAGE.
AND NOWHERE IN THE
BIBLE DOES THE LORD
REWARD COWARDICE.
BUT THE ABILITY
TO...ENDURE...
TO TURN THE OTHER CHEEK...
THAT'S THE GREATEST
COURAGE OF ALL.
NOW, I WOULD ASK YOU
AS THE SCRIPTURES DO,
MEET THIS PROBLEM
WITH REASON,
CHRISTIAN CHARITY.
FOR DO WE NOT PRAY
FORGIVE US OUR
TRESPASSES...
AS WE FORGIVE
THOSE WHO TRESPASS
AGAINST US?
FOR THAT REASON,
LET ME SPEAK TO THESE
MEN IN YOUR BEHALF.
YOU KNOW, YOU WAS WRONG
ABOUT THAT MAN'S POKE.
A DOLLAR, A QUARTER,
A DIME, AND A NICKEL--
WELL, THAT'S NOT
A DOLLAR AND A HALF.
IT'S $1.35.
WELL, I JUST THOUGHT
I'D CHECK YOU OUT.
BY THE TIME YOU GOT
THAT SUM FIGURED OUT,
SOMEBODY'D COME ALONG
AND TAKE THAT POKE.
NOW GET ME SOME COFFEE.
WHY DO I'VE GOT
GET THE COFFEE?
YOU DON'T EVEN
LET ME DRINK COFFEE.
GET ME SOME COFFEE.
[KNOCK ON DOOR]
SEE WHO'S
AT THE DOOR.
IT'S A PREACHER.
WELL, DON'T JUST
STAND THERE, BUBBA.
COME IN.
COME ON IN...
REVEREND...
ALDEN.
I'M THE PASTOR
OF THE CHURCH HERE.
SAM GALENDER.
STAND UP, GEORGE.
HOW DO YOU DO?
BUBBA, SET ANOTHER
PLATE FOR THE PREACHER,
WOULD YOU?
OH, THAT'S
NOT NECESSARY.
OH, YEAH. OUR
MAMA ALWAYS SAID
YOU'VE GOT TO
FEED THE PREACHER
OR PAY THE DEVIL.
RIGHT, SAM?
YES, SHE DID,
SURE ENOUGH.
HERE, HAVE
A SEAT.
THANK YOU.
YOUR MOTHER SOUNDS
LIKE A GOD-FEARING WOMAN.
I DOUBT THAT
SHE'D APPROVE
OF THE ADVANTAGE
YOU'VE TAKEN OF THE
PEOPLE OF THE TOWN
SINCE YOU'VE BEEN HERE.
WHAT'S HE TALKING
ABOUT, SAM?
WELL, I
DON'T KNOW.
IF WE'VE DONE
SOMETHING WRONG,
PREACHER,
I WISH YOU'D
SPELL IT OUT.
WELL, I'M TALKING ABOUT
THE PURCHASES YOU MADE,
THE BILLS YOU RAN UP
WITHOUT ANY OFFER TO PAY...
THE OUTRIGHT INTIMIDATION.
NOW, HOLD ON
A MINUTE, PREACHER.
NOW, JU--JUST
WAIT A MINUTE.
YOU'RE GETTING
THE WRONG IDEA ABOUT
US FROM SOMEBODY.
YEAH. THE LAST THING
WE WANT TO DO
IS CAUSE
ANY HARD FEELINGS.
WE LIKE THIS TOWN.
THAT'S RIGHT.
THE FACT OF THE
MATTER IS,
THERE'S A BANK DRAFT
COMING FROM ST. PAUL
THAT'S OVERDUE,
OR ELSE WE WOULDN'T
OWE ANYBODY ANYTHING
RIGHT NOW.
WELL, THAT DOESN'T
EXPLAIN THE OUTRIGHT
SALE OF THE LUMBER
THAT YOU BOUGHT
FROM MR. HANSON.
OH.
NO, SIR,
IT DOESN'T.
BUBBA, YOU SKIP
ON OUTSIDE FOR A
MINUTE, WOULD YOU?
WHAT FOR?
I WANT TO TALK
TO THE PREACHER.
NOW GIT.
I MAKE YOUR
COFFEE, CHOP
THE WOOD.
WHAT ELSE
YOU WANT ME
TO DO?
NO SENSE A YOUNG'UN
BEARING UP TO SOMETHING
HE CAN'T HANDLE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
WELL, IT'S HIS MAMA.
YEAH, OUR MA.
AND WE GOT WORD
THAT SHE TOOK TERRIBLE,
TERRIBLE SICK.
IT WAS RIGHT AFTER
WE BOUGHT THE LUMBER, TOO,
WASN'T IT, GEORGE?
NEAR TO DYING,
THE MAN SAID.
I'M VERY, VERY SORRY
TO HEAR THAT.
WELL, THANK YOU,
PREACHER,
AND WHAT WITH
THE BANK DRAFT
BEING OVERDUE
AND US WITHOUT
ANY MONEY,
WHY, THE $15 THAT
WE GOT FOR THE LUMBER
WAS THE ONLY HELP
WE COULD SEND.
YOU SHOULD HAVE
TOLD MR. HANSON.
YEAH, I SUPPOSE
I SHOULD HAVE,
BUT I--I DIDN'T WANT IT
TO GET BACK TO THE BOY,
WHAT WITH HIM SETTLING
INTO SCHOOL AND ALL.
BREAK HIS POOR
LITTLE HEART IF SHE
DOESN'T MAKE IT.
BLESS HER.
SO THAT'S WHY
WE'D APPRECIATE IT
IF YOU WOULDN'T
SAY ANYTHING EITHER,
PREACHER.
NOW, OF COURSE,
WE'RE GOING TO PAY
MR. HANSON BACK
JUST THE SECOND
THAT BANK DRAFT
COMES IN.
WELL, UNDER
THE CIRCUMSTANCES,
I WOULDN'T SAY
ANYTHING TO ANYONE.
I'M GLAD YOU SEE IT
THAT WAY, REVEREND.
[SHOUTS]
BUBBA!
AS A MATTER OF FACT,
WE OWE YOU AN
APOLOGY FOR NOT
COMING TO THE CHURCH.
BUT YOU CAN
COUNT ON US
COME NEXT SUNDAY.
I'LL LOOK
FORWARD TO IT.
VERY GOOD.
NOW HOW ABOUT
HAVING SOMETHING TO EAT?
OH, YES, OR WE'RE
GOING TO PAY THE DEVIL.
WELL, MAYBE
JUST A BIT.
VERY GOOD.
YOU HEARD HIM,
BUBBA.
SET A PLACE
FOR THE PREACHER
HERE.
MARY, ARE YOU
ALL RIGHT?
YES, MA'AM.
IT'S NOT LIKE YOU
TO SIT THROUGH RECESS.
SORRY, MISS BEADLE.
GUESS I JUST DON'T
FEEL LIKE PLAYING.
THAT'S IT FOR
YOU, WILLIE.
I'M GOING TO WIN
THEM ALL NOW.
THAT'S NO FAIR!
YOU'RE HUNCHING.
I AM NOT.
NO HUNCHIES
AND KNUCKLES DOWN.
THAT'S WHAT
WE SAID.
YOU'RE JUST MAD
BECAUSE I'M WINNING.
WELL, LAURA INGALLS
IS TRYING TO CHEAT
MY BROTHER AGAIN.
MAYBE I'D BETTER
GET IN THIS GAME.
YOU CAN'T.
IT'S TOO LATE.
WE'RE ALMOST
FINISHED.
[CRUNCH]
LOOKS LIKE TO ME
YOU'RE ALL THROUGH.
YOU AIN'T GOT
NO MARBLES LEFT.
GET YOUR FOOT OFF.
THOSE ARE MY MARBLES.
I DON'T SEE NO MARBLES.
DO YOU, NELLIE?
I SHOULD SAY NOT.
PART OF THEM
ARE MINE.
HUSH, WILLIE.
Laura:
GET YOUR FOOT OFF.
Bubba: MAKE ME.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU ASKED FOR IT.
Mary: LAURA!
LAURA,
HE'LL ONLY KNOCK
YOU DOWN AGAIN.
YOUR SISTER KNOWS.
BETTER LISTEN TO HER.
Willie:
MOST OF THOSE
ARE MINE!
HUH?
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
I DIDN'T WANT THEM
ANYWAYS.
I WANT TO
SWING NOW, BUBBA.
THAT NELLIE.
JUST WAIT
UNTIL I CATCH
HER ALONE.
THAT WOULD ONLY
CAUSE MORE TROUBLE.
BESIDES,
YOU REMEMBER WHAT
REVEREND ALDEN SAID.
I'M MORE WORRIED
ABOUT WHAT MA'S
GOING TO SAY
WHEN SHE
SEES MY DRESS.
DON'T BE.
WE'LL STOP BY
MRS. WHIPPLE'S.
I'LL FIX IT SO
MA'LL NEVER NOTICE.
SOMEONE'S GOT
TO NOTICE.
THAT BUBBA'S
A REAL BULLY, MARY.
I KNOW.
COME ON, LET'S
PLAY OVER THERE
WHERE THEY
WON'T BOTHER US.
WHAT A NICE OLD
TOWN HERE.
CHURCH-GOING,
GOD-FEARING PEOPLE.
THINK THEY MAY LET US
STAY FOR AWHILE, SAM?
[LAUGHS]
[LAUGHING]
WELL, THEY AIN'T
EXACTLY GANGING
UP ON US.
I DON'T SEE WHY NOT.
A MAN COULD
HAVE EVERYTHING
HE WANTS HERE.
JUST ABOUT EVERYTHING.
YOU KNOW, RIGHT NOW
I'D LIKE ME SOME...
FARM-FRESH EGGS.
EXCUSE ME, MA'AM.
GEORGE GALENDER.
THOSE WOULDN'T
BE FRESH EGGS
IN THAT BASKET,
WOULD THEY?
YES, THEY ARE.
HOLD ON.
LET GO OF ME!
ALL I WANT TO DO
IS LOOK AT THEM EGGS.
HOW DO YOU EXPECT US
TO BUY THEM
IF WE DON'T CHECK
THEM OUT FIRST?
THEY'RE NOT FOR SALE!
OH. NOW,
HOW ABOUT THAT, SAM?
LADY BRINGS THESE EGGS
ALL THE WAY INTO TOWN,
AND SHE DON'T
WANT TO SELL THEM.
DON'T HARDLY
SEEM RIGHT TO ME.
NOW, I ASKED YOU
TO LET GO OF ME!
NOW, PLEASE!
OH, NOW LOOK
WHAT YOU'VE DONE.
THAT'S TOO BAD.
LOOK AT THAT.
WOULDN'T BE
GENTLEMEN-LIKE OF ME
IF I DIDN'T HELP YOU
CLEAN IT UP.
LEAVE ME ALONE!
LET ME
GIVE YOU A HAND.
TAKE YOUR HANDS OFF ME!
[BOTH LAUGHING]
CAROLINE!
WHAT'S THE MATTER?
COME ON.
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH YOUR SKIRT?
OH, IT'S ALL RIGHT,
CHARLES.
I'M JUST FINE.
YOU'RE CRYING.
YOU'RE NOT JUST FINE.
WHAT'S WRONG?
I BROKE THE EGGS.
ALL RIGHT,
YOU BROKE THE EGGS.
YOU'RE NOT THIS UPSET
OVER THE EGGS.
WHAT HAPPENED?
IT WAS MY FAULT,
CHARLES.
IF I'D JUST SOLD
THEM THE EGGS LIKE
THEY WANTED ME--
THEM?
YOU MEAN THE GALENDERS?
IT WAS AN ACCIDENT,
A SIMPLE ACCIDENT.
- WHAT HAPPENED?
- OH, CHARLES.
THEY STOPPED ME.
I DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT TO DO.
WHY DIDN'T YOU
JUST KEEP WALKING?
I COULDN'T.
THEY GRABBED ME.
THE GALENDERS
PUT THEIR HANDS ON YOU?
YOU ANSWER ME! THEY PUT
THEIR HANDS ON YOU?
CHARLES!
HYAH! HAH HAH!
YOU KNOW THERE AIN'T
NO SENSE IN US SWEATING
OURSELVES UP LIKE THIS.
BUBBA'S GETTING
PLENTY BIG ENOUGH
TO BE DOING THIS.
AW, QUIT
YOUR GRIPING.
I THINK WE GOT
SOME COMPANY.
WHOA!
WELL, MR. INGALLS,
IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU.
THIS ISN'T
A SOCIAL CALL,
GALENDER.
WELL, THAT'S
A SHAME.
WE WERE JUST GOING
TO GO IN AND SIT
DOWN A SPELL.
I WANT TO KNOW
WHICH ONE OF YOU
PUT YOUR HANDS
ON MY WIFE TODAY.
WAS THAT MRS. INGALLS?
WHY, YOU'RE
A LUCKY MAN.
SHE'S A MIGHTY
HANDSOME WOMAN.
SOFT, TOO.
REAL SOFT,
YOU SAID.
[CRASH]
Sam:
GET IN HERE, GEORGE!
GEORGE, GET IN HERE!
[GRUNTING]
WHOA! WHOA!
WHOA, WHOA, WHOA!
I WANT YOU
TO STAY IN BED
AT LEAST UNTIL
SUNDAY, CHARLES.
YOU'VE GOT
3 BUSTED RIBS
THERE.
BE GLAD TO GIVE YOU
3 MORE TO WORK ON
IF I'D JUST WON.
THAT SAID
SOMETHING,
CHARLES.
DON'T GO UP AGAINST
ROUGHNECKS LIKE THEM
WITHOUT A 2 X 4.
[KNOCK ON DOOR]
EXCUSE ME.
REVEREND ALDEN,
COME IN.
CAROLINE.
DR. BAKER,
IS HE ALL RIGHT?
REVEREND.
HE'S HURT.
BUT HE'LL MEND.
Reverend: CHARLES, I'M SO
SORRY THIS HAPPENED.
WELL, MAYBE IT
WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED
IF YOU HADN'T
BUTTED IN ON SUNDAY.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT YOU MEAN.
I MEAN, ALL
YOUR SOFT WORDS,
THEY DIDN'T WORK WITH
THE GALENDERS, DID THEY?
WELL, CHARLES,
FACED WITH VIOLENCE,
THEY REACTED WITH VIOLENCE.
WHAT DO YOU EXPECT
CHARLES TO DO
WHEN A MAN'S WIFE
CAN'T WALK DOWN THE STREET
SAFE FROM THAT PAIR?
CAROLINE,
IN THAT INCIDENT,
IS THERE ANY CHANCE
YOU MIGHT HAVE
MISINTERPRETED
THE GALENDERS'
INTENTIONS?
OH, NOW, COME ON,
REVEREND, THOSE
TWO ARE NO GOOD.
TODAY IS JUST A SAMPLE.
WELL, CHARLES, YOU CAN'T
FAIRLY JUDGE THE GALENDERS
UNLESS YOU KNOW
THEIR SITUATION.
HERE WE GO AGAIN,
HUH, REVEREND?
JUST LIKE ON SUNDAY.
BE STRONG, BE CHARITABLE,
TURN THE OTHER CHEEK.
CHARLES, BELIEVE ME--
DON'T START TELLING ME
THERE'S GOOD IN ALL PEOPLE!
I'M SORRY.
BUT SO HELP ME, CHARLES,
I CANNOT APPROVE
OF WHAT YOU DID.
THEN WE DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE TO TALK ABOUT,
DO WE, REVEREND?
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
DON'T YOU WORRY
ABOUT A THING, CHARLES.
I'LL GET ME
A PLOW HANDLE.
BY THE TIME I'M DONE
WITH THEM GALENDERS,
THEY'LL BE TOO SORE
TO WEAR THEIR HATS.
I WANT YOU
TO STAY OUT OF IT.
YOU'RE MY FRIEND.
YOU'D DO THE SAME
FOR ME.
YOU GOT YOUR OWN FAMILY
TO TAKE CARE OF.
THIS IS MY PROBLEM.
IF YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR MY BROTHERS,
THEY AIN'T HERE.
I SEE.
I WAS WONDERING,
HAVE THEY RECEIVED
ANY WORD ABOUT
YOUR MOTHER?
THEY AIN'T HEARD
NOTHING FROM HER
IN YEARS.
HOW'D YOU KNOW
ABOUT HER ANYWAY?
WELL, THEY TOLD ME.
THEY DID?
DON'T OFTEN
THEY DO THAT.
AIN'T PROUD OF THE WAY
SHE TOOK OFF WITH
THAT DRUMMER.
DRUMMER?
YEAH, RIGHT
AFTER I WAS BORN.
LEFT A NOTE
SHE WAS HEADED
FOR CALIFORNIA.
NO WAY TO TELL,
THOUGH.
AIN'T HEARD
FROM HER SINCE.
I'M SORRY.
IT WAS MY MISTAKE.
WOULD YOU TELL
YOUR BROTHERS
THAT I'LL BE
LOOKING FORWARD
TO SEEING THEM
AT CHURCH SUNDAY?
SURE WILL.
COME ON, MARY,
HURRY UP.
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO SOAK OUR FEET
IN THE CREEK
BEFORE WE DO
OUR CHORES!
JUST A MINUTE.
I HAVE TO TIE
MY SHOE.
BESIDES, WE HAVE
ALL WEEKEND TO GO
TO THE CREEK.
WELL, LOOK
WHAT I FOUND.
PUT THAT BACK.
THAT'S NOT YOURS,
BUBBA GALENDER.
WELL, FINDERS KEEPERS.
LOSERS WEEPERS.
THAT'S MY
TABLET, BUBBA.
WELL, I DON'T SEE
YOUR NAME ON IT.
I SAW HIM
FIND IT.
MY NAME'S RIGHT
ON THE FRONT.
NOW GIVE IT BACK.
YOU SAYING I CAN'T READ?
I'M JUST SAYING
THAT YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO BULLY ME
OR ANY OTHER GIRL
AROUND HERE ANYMORE.
THAT GOES
FOR ME, TOO.
THERE COMES A
TIME WHEN PEOPLE
HAVE TO STAND UP
FOR WHAT'S RIGHT.
WE'RE NOT BACKING DOWN
TO YOU ANYMORE.
WELL, YOU FIRST
BETTER GO TALK
TO YOUR PAPA,
'CAUSE IF YOU
REMEMBER, MY BROTHERS
TAUGHT HIM REAL GOOD
HOW TO
BELLY CRAWL.
LET'S GET HIM,
LAURA!
COME ON!
[SHOUTING]
- GOOD NIGHT, MA.
- GOOD NIGHT.
GOOD NIGHT,
GIRLS.
I'M SORRY
ABOUT TODAY, MA.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
FROM WHAT YOU SAID,
IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU COULDN'T AVOID IT.
REVEREND ALDEN'S
SURE TO THINK THAT
WE WERE WRONG, TOO, HUH?
MAYBE NOT.
YOU WON. HA HA.
CHARLES.
SOUNDS TO ME
LIKE THEY TAUGHT
SOMEBODY A LESSON.
I LEARNED ONE, TOO.
THAT IF YOU
STAND TOGETHER,
YOU DON'T HAVE
TO BE AFRAID.
SHE SURE WASN'T.
YOU SHOULD HAVE
SEEN HER
LAYING IT ON
TO THAT OLD BUBBA.
LAURA.
IT'S ONE THING
TO HAVE A FIGHT.
IT'S ANOTHER TO BE
PRIDEFUL ABOUT IT.
YES, MA'AM.
I THINK YOU GIRLS
BETTER GET IN THE HOUSE
BEFORE YOU GET A CHILL.
YES, SIR.
GOOD NIGHT, PA.
GOOD NIGHT.
LAURA,
SHE REALLY
SOCKED HIM
A GOOD ONE, HUH?
SHE SURE
DID, MA.
POW!
I THINK I'D
BETTER HAVE HER DO
MY FIGHTING FOR ME.
GOOD CHRISTIANS
ON THEIR WAY
TO CHURCH.
CHARLES,
JUST DON'T
SAY ANYTHING.
MORNING!
Mary: MORNING,
MR. EDWARDS.
- HELLO, MARY.
- GOOD MORNING, MR. EDWARDS.
THERE YOU GO.
COME ON, CARRIE.
GOOD MORNING,
MR. EDWARDS.
HOW ARE YOU?
- HELLO.
GOOD MORNING.
WITH YOUR INDULGENCE,
I WOULD LIKE TO
DISPENSE WITH THE HYMN
AND GO DIRECTLY
TO MY SUBJECT
THIS MORNING--
HEAVEN AND HELL.
SOMETIMES WE FORGET
IN OUR CONTEMPLATION
OF OUR REWARD IN HEAVEN
THAT THERE
EVEN IS A HELL.
BUT WE MIGHT DO
WELL THIS MORNING
TO REMEMBER THAT
HELL HAS A PURPOSE, TOO.
AND THE DEVIL DOESN'T SIT
DOWN THERE ALL BY HIMSELF.
NOW, I'VE TOLD YOU
THAT THERE'S GOOD
IN ALL PEOPLE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T
MEAN THAT ALL PEOPLE
LEAD GOOD LIVES.
THERE ARE
THOSE WHO LIE,
WHO STEAL...
WHO ABUSE THOSE
AROUND THEM.
LAST WEEK...
I TOLD YOU THAT IT WAS NOBLE
AND COURAGEOUS
TO TURN THE OTHER CHEEK.
WELL, THAT'S TRUE.
BUT THIS WEEK,
ONE OF YOU REMINDED ME
THAT THERE ARE TIMES WHEN
THE DEVIL IS IN OUR MIDST...
THAT NO ENDURANCE...
NO NOBILITY
WILL DEFEND US
AGAINST THOSE
WHO DO HIS BIDDING.
REVEREND, ALL THAT TALK
ABOUT THE DEVIL,
YOU WOULDN'T BE SLURRING
ME AND MY BROTHERS,
WOULD YOU?
MORE THAN THAT...
IT'S STRANGE THAT IT TOOK
THE CHILDREN OF THIS TOWN
TO TEACH US THE LESSON.
WE ARE A TOWN.
WE'RE A COMMUNITY.
WE'RE A CONGREGATION.
AND NO MAN SHOULD
HAVE TO STAND ALONE
AGAINST THOSE WHO
DO THE DEVIL'S WORK.
WHAT ARE YOU
PLANNING TO DO,
PREACHER?
I INTEND TO SEE YOU
OUT OF THIS CHURCH
AND OUT OF
THIS COMMUNITY.
WELL. THAT'S
PRETTY HARD WORDS,
BUT IT LOOKS TO ME
LIKE YOU'RE
STILL STANDING
PRETTY MUCH ALONE.
[MRS. OLESON GASPS]
AM I?
ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT, WE'LL--
WE'LL BE OUT OF HERE
BY NIGHTFALL.
YOU'LL GO NOW.
AND YOU'LL TAKE
ONLY THOSE THINGS
YOU BROUGHT WITH YOU.
MAYBE NEXT TIME
YOU'LL THINK TWICE
BEFORE
YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF DECENT PEOPLE.
TELL HIM WE'LL DO IT,
SAM. WE'LL DO IT.
ALL RIGHT.
ISAIAH, YOUR MEN
CAN HANDLE THIS?
AMEN, REVEREND.
LET'S GO.
CAROLINE, IF YOU'LL
LEAD THE LADIES IN A HYMN,
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
Women:
ONWARD, CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS
MARCHING AS TO WAR
WITH THE CROSS OF JESUS
GOING ON BEFORE...